So in this module, we learned a lot about the core Ionic components,
you learned that the official docs are the place to go to learn all about them, all possible configurations
because it's impossible to just memorize them,
you will learn them by heart over time as you use them but it is totally normal that you initially look
into here and learn how you can use certain components, how you can combine them and I still look into
this documentation as well because there are some components which you use all the time, which you quickly
know how to use and which you don't need to look up
but there also are components you don't use that often and then the docs are your friend,
plus new features might be added and you can always see them here.
So with that, we were able to build something like this,
something like this application and we achieve this with just these Ionic components, without our own
styling and the behavior is then the only thing we control with our Javascript code,
so the behavior of
the app.
And that is exactly where Angular can help us and why we will use Angular, because if we will implement
everything on our own, this will be quite hard with vanilla Javascript.
It doesn't have to be Angular but you will definitely need some framework or library at some point of
time so that you don't have to reinvent the wheel all the time,
for example when it comes to adding elements to the DOM, you don't want to do that,
you want to focus on your business logic and not on these nitty-gritty details which you can still easily
mess up,
so therefore, we use Angular. To be very precise, there are three main reasons why we would use Angular
or any other framework because doing everything on our own will be hard, especially hard will be if we
have more complex logic.
As I mentioned we don't want to reinvent the wheel of the low-level implementations,
we don't want to access the DOM on our own,
we just want to control how will our DOM need to change,
which data will need to be output, like a list of products.
We don't want to take care about the actual outputting logic,
we want to control the logic behind that, so adding a product, validating input products, fetching them
from a server, that is what we want to do.
We also don't want to do all the state management on our own because state management in bigger apps
can be really hard, passing the data around correctly and updating different parts in the application
when some data changed somewhere else,
this can quickly become a nightmare and Angular makes this super easy with its services. So to prevent
our user interface from behaving unpredictably and our application having tons of bugs,
we definitely want to use a state management system as the one offered by Angular, its services and the dependency
injection and this by the way also kind of touches on the alert controller and so on.
You remember this element we had to place in our HTML code and then get access to to create an alert?
With Angular and Ionic, we'll be able to just inject this alert controller,
thanks to a little wrapper package Ionic gives us around
the core components. It then makes using these controller components way easier, so that again we
don't have to focus on adding it and selecting it with the query selector but that we can just inject it
and start using it.
And last but not least, what if our application needs multiple pages?
Right now, we always have one page in our dummy app right,
we didn't navigate around, we didn't press a back button and go somewhere else. In bigger apps
you of course have that, you have tabs, you have a side drawer, you have different pages, different parts of
the app like a list of products, your card and the user profile.
This routing could be done with just Ionic,
it actually has its own router component but the Angular router is way more powerful than that,
it gives us a lot of advanced functionalities and smart routing, so routing correctly where we also can
work with things like query params in the URL and so on is actually quite difficult, so we definitely
want to use a finished and tested and battle-proven routing solution like the Angular router to have efficient,
fast and powerful feature-rich routing we can add in our app to switch pages and navigate around.
That is why we use Angular because it helps us with the complex logic, because we can focus on writing
the logic and Angular does the rest of updating the DOM,
it gives us clear rules of how we structure our app with components, directives, services and so on, so that
we have a clear plan of building a bigger app.
It helps us with services, bindings and with routing to transport state around and speaking of routing,
there it helps us with passing data and with lazy loading, etc.
So this is why we will use Angular from the next section on and I will show you in detail how to set
up an Angular and Ionic project,
we already did it in Section 1 of the course but now I will also walk you through the created project
and explain how Angular and Ionic work together and how Ionic actually leverages the Angular CLI
under the hood.